In the previous few videos,
I've introduced you to the module dash info dot Java file,
and I stated that it was required
to configure either a jar or exploded directory as a module.
In this video, we're gonna discuss this special Java file
and the different options available.
So at a minimum, the module dash info dot Java file,
which is a multi-directive file
for module named, named module has this form.
Module named module laterite curly braces.
And we're saying something similar in previous videos.
The official specification for the module declaration
is shown below.
From the Java specification,
the following directive should populate module directive
are as follows.
And I wanna point out here that this three others
which we're not gonna discuss,
opens users and provides,
they're not part of the first exam objective,
and we won't be discussing them here.
The first directive requires,
as arguments requires modify and module name.
And examples here requires org dot module dot a.
Requires Java dot logging, requires transitive org dot
module dot d.
Requires static org dot module dot e.
So a module specified in the requires directive
is one which exports package or packages
that the current module may or does have a dependency on.
The current module we said to rate the module specified
in the required directive.
A requires directive with a transit modifier,
allows any module,
which requires the current module
to have an implicit requires directive
on the specified module.
And a static directive,
requires the specified module at compile time,
but it's optional at run time.
Next directive is exports.
Its unqualified and the directive arguments
are the package name, and example their,
exports org dot packaged dot base.
So package specified in the experts directive will expose
it's public and protected types
and the public and protect members of those types,
to modules that read the current module.
So in other words, specifies a requires directive
to the current module.
And next export, which is qualified this time,
that would be package name to module name.
And we can have more than one separated by comas.
Some example there, exports org dot package dot util
to org dot module dot a coma org dot module dot b.
So the two key word makes it exports directive qualified
and will be followed by a comma delimited list
of modules that are termed Friends of the current module.
So friends of a module have access to public
and protected types,
and the public and protected members of those types,
of the exported package.
And no other modules will have access
and you limit the exposure of the export package types
to its friends.
Alright, so let's walk through each of these directives
in the, carried in the next few videos.
Now in the module testing project,
we created in the last video,
you need to create a new module called
org dot module dot global.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
(typing)
I'm gonna close up my first module
and the second module here.
And there is our org dot module dot global.
As is the case when you're creating modules,
we need to right click the source folder
for the module we created,
and create our module dot info dot java file.
You can see I've done that their in NL.
Next what we wanna do is create a package in this folder
and does some source code.
So new Java class and it's going to be your
org dot pkg dot appglobals dot,
and we'll call the class application constants.
Alright, so there's a class.
Since it's just a class that has two fields,
we wanna a constant app underscore name,
and one that is a global counter
which we provide two methods for
at counter and get counter.
Basically want to increment and I want
to retreat the valley.
And we're gonna expose this package to any other module
that requires it,
by changing the module info dash Java file.
So when I opened this one,
I'm gonna take the opportunity
to close some of these other files.
Alright, so there's our
org dot module dot global module info file.
So I'm gonna add that to a directive, as I said,
and again what we're trying to do here is,
we're exposing this package to any other module
that requires it.
So I'm going to type exports, org dot package, or pkg,
dot appglobals,
which of course, is the package we've defined.
You can see that I've in the project pane.
We can build this package
by right clicking over here and building it.
Okay, no problem so far,
but let's open a terminal window here
by clicking on the project time and opening in Terminal.
Let's try typing in a command.
Jdeps. Jdeps space dash dash module dash path space,
slash production, nothing amazing, forward slash this time,
which works just as well as in previous videos
where I was doing backslashes dash m,
at least on Windows forward slash should work on Linux
and Mac, it's org dot module dot global.
The now the output is listing the penalties
that are implied here in Java dot base
is one that's showing.
So let's execute the Java command.
So it's going to be Java space dash dash module,
dash path again, space out forward slash production,
base just as described dash module.
It's going to be org dot module dot global again.
And you can see describes,
module path out both the dependencies
and the directive information.
We can see our exports there as well
as the mandated requires Java dot pace.
Alright so moving on now let's create a second module,
which ostensibly would contain some kind of utility code.
So we're going to create a new module up here.
New module and we'll call this one org dot module dot util.
Close the terminal panel.
Let's send this a second module.
Go through the same process
to create a module dash info file
by clicking on source, source folder
and selecting module dash info.
Aright then we got that open.
In here we're going to talk requires
transitive org dot module dot global.
And I'm using the transitive modify here,
so that anything that requires org dot module dot util,
will also be able to read org dot module dot global.
The net type require org dot module global in red.
So if I click on that note,
then we've got this little pop up
where we should click.
And intelliger is warning us to include,
org dot modules dot global in its dependencies.
Let's see its internal IML file.
So we're gonna click on that
to add the dependency on module org dot module dot global.
You can see the error then disappears.
There's two things here
that doesn't affect a normal Java module.
That's purely that era was popping up,
as a result of IntelliJ,
wanting to keep its own tracking in its own IML file,
which you can see down there module testing dot IML.
Alrght. So let's create a new file here.
And we're gonna create a new interface in our source folder
for org dot module dot util.
So new Java class, org dot pkg dot util dot countable,
remembering that the module name
is not the same as the package name here.
So we're using org dot pkg dot util for the package name
for countable.
But there before we've also used org dot module dot util
for the modular the module name.
They're separate things
That is our countable.
It's actually a class problem making that an interface.
I'm going to replace that code. There's the interface.
So let's finish the video here
in the next video will actually implement this interface
in a class in another model.
We'll see you in the next video.